Home.
Although it'll start off
with some sunshine
in the morning,
you'll find cloud coming
along in the afternoon.
That's all, have a lovely day.
BBC News, and good day.
Just 24 hours after what many
are calling Black Monday,
the FTSE 100 Index
lost another 250 points,
leaving businesses
and investors reeling.
Well, that's what happens
when you deregulate.
Global markets
have rallied somewhat
after yesterday's losses
which saw Wall Street close
- a full 508 points down.
- Idiots.
Supporters
and families of Tamil migrants
have gathered outside a London
refugee detention centre
to protest against
the government's plan
to deport them.
We came here
because in our country
our lives are in danger.
We came to keep
our children safe.
A Home Office
spokesman described
Britain's humanitarian record
as outstanding.
- We'll have a report.
Hello, darling.
I was worried this would be...
- Huh?
- ...burnt on top.
You all right?
What?
- What's that?
Well, what does it look like?
It's a button.
- A button?
- Yes.
Somebody just, uh,
put it in the tin.
Honestly. People.
Well, you never know
when it may come in handy.
Hm.
Oh.
Oh, hello.
What have you got now?
Oh, it's a typewriter.
I know what it is,
but you've already got one.
I know. It's not for me.
It's, um...
They don't need it anymore
at the day centre,
so I thought it would be
all right
for the new care home.
And, uh, we can hang on to it
in the meanwhile.
- No.
- Huh?
No.
Why? Uh, I've also got
a desk outside.
- What? Where?
- Well, I haven't
brought it in yet but...
- Oh, Nicky. It's too much.
- What?
How will we fit everyone in
at Christmas?
I don't know.
They'll just have to shove up,
won't they?
Your daughter is
seven months pregnant.
- I know.
- She cannot "shove up".
All right.
Well, I'll move it all
to the study then.
Oh, the study.
I bet you have plenty
of room in the study.
- God.
- Let's go and check the study.
- Oh, Nicky.
Out.
Do you still need all this?
Yes. Why?
What... What's in
all these drawers?
- Well, everything I think.
Darling.
A domino, a biscuit
and how many rubber bands
does one man need?
I don't know.
I've never asked the question.
And you've got to find
the right home for that.
Somewhere it will
be appreciated.
Please, Nicky,
you have to let go.
For your own sake.
Oh, I'm so looking forward
to it.
Do you want me
to stay with him?
No, no. No, he'll be fine.
Okay, well,
maybe I'll just call him.
Yes. Yes.
He's a grown man.
You don't have to wave me off.
Of course I'm going
to wave you off.
Everyone's here.
Ah.
Huh.
Hm.
Nicky,
don't let yourself get...
What?
How you get.
- I won't. Of course I won't.
You have a wonderful time.
- Home.
Ah, Nicky.
- You missed Martin.
- Damn.
Two hearts. Kings.
Uh, hello. Did Martin say
if he'd call back?
Seven o'clock sharp.
Oh.
Thank you, mother.
You're very welcome, son.
Isn't Martin the chap
he was supposed
to be going skiing with?
Yes. But Martin is
in Prague now,
helping refugees.
Prague?
Well, precisely.
- Hello?
It's Martin.
- Can you hear me? Nicky?
- I... I can hear you.
- It's a terrible line.
- I can hear you.
Listen, I'm not sure
you should come.
No, it's all arranged.
I have my ticket.
I have
to leave Prague tonight.
I'll have a man called
Trevor Chadwick meet you.
I'm so sorry.
It's just such a mess here.
Happy Christmas.
So, you going?
I am, yes.
Everyone in Prague
is trying to get out.
My son is trying to get in.
Did you speak to Martin?
I did. Uh, turns out
he's not gonna be there.
He's escorting some refugees
out of the country
and then he's heading
back home to London.
- Nicky.
- Look, I have to do something.
It... Is...
And you, of all people,
should understand that.
Isn't that what you taught me?
Well, I can't just sit here
reading about it.
These people need help.
I was never in doubt
that the cause was just,
only whether Prague is safe.
It's only a week.
Uh, I'll be back
before you even miss me.
Nicky, it's not a joke.
I know, I know.
I'm sorry, but I...
I have to go.
Here we are.
Mr Chadwick.
- This is Mr Winton.
Evening.
- Now, don't go giving him
a better room than me.
All our rooms are the best
rooms, Mr Chadwick.
Rudi takes good care of us.
Welcome. And Miss Warriner
is in the bar.
Oh, that's Doreen
with one of our refugees.
Over here.
Her husband
was picked up
on the street this morning.
Picked up by?
Doreen thinks Nazi spies
doing Hitler's dirty work.
What will happen?
To him, I mean.
Ah, thank you, thank you.
He'll be dumped somewhere.
Maybe alive,
but probably not.
You're Martin's
friend, the stockbroker.
- Nicky. And you must be, uh...
- Unbelievably angry.
So?
We've managed to get
Monika into a safe house
for the night
and her daughter
on the plane out tomorrow.
Well,
that's something.
So, Martin says you know
your way around a desk.
That's quite an accolade.
It is here.
Paperwork's everything.
And can
I just ask, um,
why... why was that woman's
husband taken?
He ran a newspaper in Germany.
Spoke out against the Nazis.
When it got too dangerous,
they escaped over the border
into Czechoslovakia.
- The Sudetenland.
- Where they thought
they'd be safe.
And so they fled
to Prague.
All right, I've got
a lot to do.
Taking supplies
to the camps tomorrow.
I could use your help.
Can I ask what
brought you out here?
I came 10 years ago
for a study trip.
I just... just love the place,
love the people.
Now they're in trouble.
So I came back.
Are they all
from the Sudetenland?
Mostly.
Some from Austria and Germany
who fled there first.
Drive an hour north of here,
towards the German border,
you'll see the towns
they ran from
hung with Nazi flags.
Dear God.
I know. And there are
thousands more like this.
Ahoj, Hana.
This is Nicholas Winton.
He's here to help out.
Oh.
Hana Hejdukova. Liaison
officer for Czech refugees.
- Hello.
- Your first time
- in Czechoslovakia?
- Yes, yes, it... Yes, it is.
Shame you didn't come sooner.
When there was more of it.
Hana.
Um, can you get the others?
Oh, there we go.
So, you've managed
to get doctors out to them?
Oh, plenty
of doctors already here.
Lots of these children grew up
thinking the worst thing
that was ever gonna happen
to them was piano practice.
Nicky.
- Hello.
I'm so... I'm sorry,
I haven't got anything.
Oh, wait,
now hold on a moment.
- Chocolate.
Here we go.
Oh, yes,
of course you'd like some
as well.
- There we go.
Oh.
Let's see
how far we go.
Oh, crikey.
There's only a tiny bit.
- And little bit for you.
Little bit for you.
That's it.
That's the last of it.
- There you go.
I'm sorry. I'll, um...
I'll bring more, another day.
Foto, foto.
Yes, yes. It's a good idea.
What's your name?
- I'm Nicky.
Can you say, "Nicky"?
- There we go.
How will these children
survive the winter?
Well, they probably won't.
And there are
a dozen more places like this.
Surely, they should be
the priority,
the children, families.
My remit is
to rescue politicals
at imminent risk of arrest.
And I've hardly the money
or manpower for that.
What about
the British government trains?
The Kindertransport?
It's only for children leaving
Germany and Austria.
Not from Czechoslovakia.
Unfortunately, His Majesty's
government refuses
to believe these people
are in danger.
How many
children are we talking about?
Oh, well, we don't know.
That's part of the problem.
Thousands. There's refugees
all over the city.
Jewish people, especially.
But anyone, really,
who doesn't fit
into Hitler's master race.
They're banned from travel
and the UK's
refusing entry visas
to families trying to get out.
It's chaos.
Welcome to
the British Committee
for Refugees
from Czechoslovakia.
Hana, get him those files,
would you?
That's quite a filing system.
Yes. Well,
if the Germans
send in their spies,
at least they won't be able
to find anything.
- In any case,
you're the one who's supposed
to be good with paperwork.
This is you.
Uh, yes, this report
details
the political activists
in and around Prague.
What's this?
The Führer's travel plans
in black and white.
He's got his sights set
on half of Europe.
It's just a question of when.
Who else has seen it?
Half of Prague, I imagine.
Meant to intimidate.
Hitler's never made any secret
of his ambitions.
The allies banked
on appeasing him
with a fat slice
of this country.
Now the vicious shit's just
gonna take the rest of it.
The children.
We have to move them.
Says the man
who arrived yesterday.
Well, I'm not suggesting
it's gonna be easy.
A mass transit of children
without money or... or visas?
Well, we'll find a way.
How long are you here for?
A week?
And then you're back
to your bank.
Can we please put that aside
for now?
Well, can we please
be realistic?
We can't give
these people false hope.
Look, we... we have to believe
that this might be possible.
Look...
Let me try. Let... Let...
Let me
find out the scale
of the problem.
You know, how many children,
names and ages,
where they're living.
There must be
existing information.
Well, the vulnerable groups,
they do have lists.
But, they are scared
to share them.
Well, then, we need
to earn their trust.
We need those lists.
So, we have to persuade them.
Please, let me try.
Good afternoon.
Uh, my name is Winton.
Nicholas Winton.
Yes, I'm ringing from
the British Committee
for Refugees
from Czechoslovakia.
Well, I'm looking to obtain
a list of vulnerable children.
No, I understand, but we will
have everything in place.
- Hello? Hello?
Yes.
May I at least come and meet?
Thank you for seeing me.
How could I resist?
You're offering to get
children out of Prague.
A lot of them.
That is correct.
Hitler will be thrilled
to know you're helping him
eradicate Jews
from the region.
With... With respect, uh,
I'm moving children
of all faiths and none.
Separating them
from their families,
perhaps from their religion?
Accommodating them
in safe homes,
with families in foster homes.
Jewish foster homes?
I don't know.
I don't think
that's a question for now.
But it's a question
I'm asking.
You are not the only person
at this table
concerned about the well-being
of Jewish children.
Parents in London
are preparing
to send their children
out of the city
to safety in the event
of a war.
What I'm proposing
is no different.
Your children would
be protected
and returned to their families
as soon as it's safe.
Are you Jewish, Mr Winton?
Why would you ask that?
Because I wonder why a person
would undertake
this daunting task for people
to whom he has
no real allegiance,
in a place where
he does not belong.
You're a stockbroker
from London
with a comfortable life,
I presume.
You've done some research.
It is a serious matter.
So, why are you doing this?
What I mean is,
who are you, Mr Winton?
Well...
My father's family
came from Germany
to London in the 1870s.
Till just a few months ago,
we were Wertheims.
We went through the last war
with a German surname
and my mother...
my mother couldn't stand
doing it again, so...
And my grandparents
on both sides were Jewish.
But I was baptised
in the Church of England.
So,
I don't know
what you'd call me.
I would call you a Jew.
I consider myself a European,
an agnostic,
and a Socialist.
There are children here,
living in fields, in the open,
in... in... in mud...
The worst of winter's
still to come
and under the threat
of Nazi invasion.
I have seen this
and I cannot unsee it.
And because I may be able
to do something about it,
I must.
At least try.
The task you propose
requires money and visas.
I don't have them. Yet.
But I'll get them.
If I send these children
to you,
I'm placing their lives
in your hands.
A very great responsibility.
So, in the end, Mr Winton,
it is a question of trust.
In Hebrew, there is a saying.
Don't start
what you can't finish.
Hampstead, 7946.
Mother?
Nicky! So good to hear you.
Now, listen, I can't be long.
No, of course not. No, uh...
But are you all right?
Are you safe?
I'm perfectly fine.
You don't sound
very convincing.
Just tell me
you're coming home, yes?
Yes, yes, now, listen.
I need you
to do something for me.
Tell me.
And I'm afraid it's not
going to be easy.
Hello, Rudi, I'd like
to send a telegram.
Yes, certainly, sir,
just a moment.
To, Mr Hart, H-A-R-T...
At Crews Brothers, stockbrokers.
Slight change of plan.
"Slight change."
- Stop.
Working Prague with Refugees.
Return to office delayed.
He thought
you were official. German.
Oh, no, no, no.
I'm sorry. Um...
No, I'm... I'm... I'm trying
to help the families.
- Madam.
- Oh.
Good morning. My name
is Babette Winton.
I'd like to speak
to someone in immigration.
And where have
you arrived from?
From Hampstead, on the 24 bus.
I'm a British citizen
seeking your advice.
- Do you have an appoint...
- An appointment? No.
But I'm happy to wait.
Mr Jovak?
Here.
Come this way, please.
Anyone else?
Yes, actually, um,
there was a young girl
that I first saw when Doreen
brought me here, um...
She was about 11 or 12.
She had a very young
baby sister.
Applications are considered
according to protocol...
Oh, protocol. That is
a meaningless phrase.
You repeating it ad infinitum
really doesn't help.
These are
unaccompanied children.
They're children,
they are desperate,
and they are starving.
Like many poorer
British children.
British children are not
facing the threat
of imminent Nazi invasion.
Mrs Winton, there are
other people waiting.
If you don't mind...
Young man, I have something
to tell you. Sit down.
I came here 30 years ago,
from Germany, to marry.
I raised my family here.
My husband is buried here.
And what I have most admired
about this country
is its commitment
to decency, kindness,
and respect for others.
I raised my son in accordance
with these values
and he is in Prague, now,
as we speak,
putting these values
into practice.
I am merely asking you
to do the same.
Is that too much to ask?
Ask your questions,
Mrs Winton.
Thank you. Now, I need you
to concentrate
and I need you
to be very clear.
She's 12.
They don't know
whose baby it is. No one does.
She is helping care for her.
But what about the parents?
Hm, taken or dead.
Right.
Let's get on.
This is Maidenhead, 3310.
Nicholas and Grete Winton.
Please leave a message.
Hi, Dad.
It's just me checking in
to see you're okay.
We're all right. Had just been
to the clinic,
everything's fine
with the baby.
Mum says that you're thinking
about what to do
with the briefcase.
Um...
I know that won't
be easy for you.
I'm here if you wanna
talk about it.
Hope you're swimming lots.
In Munich,
Nazis took my brothers.
My nephews tried to stop them,
12, 10 years old, just boys.
They were beaten and thrown
down the stairs
and taken to the camps.
Eva and Vera.
These are my sister's boys,
Honza and Tommy.
Our family name is Diamantova.
Oh, thank you.
That's Vera.
Eva.
Honza, Tommy.
Oh, what happened here?
She fell. Skiing.
She loves the mountains.
Oh. You like...
You like skiing?
I love skiing.
Skiing
and swimming.
And swimming? Me too.
- Morning, Rudi.
- Morning.
Would you mind putting a call
through to this number for me?
- Of course. Give me a moment.
- Thank you.
And Mr Winton,
you have a telegram.
Oh. Thank you.
Mr Winton, your call.
Cabin number two.
Nicky,
you will not believe
- what they are asking for.
- All right, I'm ready.
A separate visa application
for each child.
An individual sponsor
who must promise to pay
for all the child's needs.
And a fee of 50 pounds to pay
for their eventual return.
- Fifty pounds?
- Yes, I know.
Wait, there's more.
A medical certificate,
uh, and a foster parent
to care for the child
till the age of 17
or until they are able
to return home.
Christ, Nicky!
Yeah.
Nicky?
Mr Slonek. Hello.
Hello, hello. Uh...
I have changed my mind.
Here are, uh, photos,
I believe now
you will help them?
Jan. Petr.
- And... Karel. Karel.
Karel.
When will they go... please?
What did I miss?
Nicky was just saying
we have to assume
that this is happening.
Yeah.
We are moving the children.
In big groups. By train.
That's a two-day trip,
which would mean
crossing Holland
and the Dutch have shut
their borders
to Jewish refugees.
And they'd have
to cross Germany.
Yes, but they'd only
be passing through
and on British visas.
With British
foster parents waiting.
Well, that is, if you can find
British foster parents.
There are a thousand children
on that list.
The welcome may not be as warm
as you're all imagining.
Then we have
to heat things up.
We have to get
the press working.
Get them moving
and on our side.
Ordinary people
wouldn't stand for this
if they knew what
was actually happening.
You've a lot of faith
in ordinary people.
I do because
I'm an ordinary person.
So am I.
And me.
Well, there you go.
That's just what we need,
isn't it?
An army of the ordinary.
Nicky, you should go back
to London, raise funds.
Raise a stink.
I can do that. No problem.
What about your job
in the bank?
Well, stock market closes
at half past three.
And I'll take care
of this end.
- With Hana's help?
- Of course.
Oh, God.
We're actually doing this,
aren't we?
Here's to the children's
section of the BCRC.
There isn't one.
- There is now.
All those in favour.
Nicky, if I may.
What are you doing?
Excuse me.
My God.
- Those your socks?
Look,
you'll need something
for all that paperwork.
Thank you.
To The Times'
letter section.
Dear sir, I have just returned
from Prague,
where I was assessing the fate
of refugees in the city.
Among the many
unfortunate souls,
I found about 2,000 children
living in damp,
overcrowded camps.
Overcrowded, insanitary camps.
- Yes, true.
In one of the camps,
several have already
succumbed to disease.
I saw a mother cradling
her dead child.
The thousands struggling
to survive
find themselves facing
the threat of Nazi invasion
and the horrors
that will bring.
We are working to evacuate
these children by train
to safety in Britain
as a matter of urgency.
Will people please help with
donations or foster homes?
Please contact
Mr Nicholas G Winton,
the British Council for
Refugees in Czechoslovakia,
Children's section.
20 Willow Road, NW Three...
The wanderer returns!
Crikey, Nicky,
Hart's been apoplectic.
Oh, well.
There goes your bonus.
Mother.
Sorry. Thank you.
I've seen your letter
in the press.
Well, then you understand
the urgency.
The process...
Our first group
consists of 20 children
who are in the most dire need.
They will arrive by train
into Liverpool Street Station
in two weeks' time.
Yes, two weeks, a fortnight.
Which is why we're
asking for your help to...
to accelerate the process.
Applications are dealt
with in turn.
The process takes time.
We don't have time.
The German army could
cross the border any day.
Mr Leadbetter...
these are your children, yes?
- They are.
- There are families
just like this,
just like yours,
living in conditions
you cannot imagine.
The threat of war
hangs over them.
What they have done for you
is to stand
against Nazi expansionism.
All they ask, in return,
is a temporary refuge
for their children.
From whatever horror
is yet to come.
Isn't that the least
this country should offer?
Provided your paperwork
is in order.
It is in perfect order.
Then I'll do my best.
Two weeks, where are we going
to find the money?
We'll find it.
In two weeks?
- And the foster families?
- I know. We'll do it.
Olga Santer...
Santer, yes.
... and Petr Slonek.
Slonek, Petr, yes.
Right. It's a start.
Jan Slonek, number 174.
Petr Slonek, 144.
Rosa Lenart,
number 529.
Good.
Tommy Katschinsky,
number nine.
Michael Lappert, 46.
- Landesmann, 19.
Next.
Jacob...
...number twenty-four.
I have a family
from Shropshire
that will take a girl,
8 to 11 years,
and Mr and Mrs Horrell
that will take a boy,
just one,
but ideally under eight
and brown haired.
There you go.
Martin.
So sorry I wasn't
with you in Prague.
Not at all.
Anyway, I'm here now.
What can I do?
Well, we've got, uh,
20 children ready to travel
and only eight foster homes.
There's plenty of people
who'd gladly take a child,
but they can't raise
the 50 pounds guarantee.
So, that's what we need
most right now. It's money.
Let me make some calls.
Phone?
Come with me. Coffee?
Nicky, five pounds!
Five pounds, 20 pounds from
the Girl Guides and then...
That's 100 in one day!
And then Picture Post has
raised 90 pounds.
Ready?
We've foster families
for, uh, Marlia Keller,
- uh, Kristina Novotka...
Mm-hmm.
- ...the Blaufrank twins.
- Yes.
And Jan
and Petr Slonek.
And their brother?
No. No one would
take all three.
Goodness.
Tell them
it won't be long now.
- We'll be moving them soon.
- Nicky,
it's getting harder here.
Two more people from Doreen's
list have disappeared.
I don't know
how long we've got.
Come on, then.
Good lads.
There you go, good lads.
All right.
Thank God you're here.
I was worried.
I'm so sorry.
All right,
all right, all right.
Petr Slonek.
- Slonek. Petr and Jan.
174.
Thank you.
144.
So, that's only one
we're missing, now.
- Check them all.
This is our train.
Hello.
141.
Come on, then, let's go.
Come on, come on, let's go.
Okay. Okay.
Good girl.
The train at platform eight
is the 9:25 service
to Ipswich.
Calling at Shenfield,
Chelmsford, Witham,
Colchester, Manningtree
and Ipswich.
The train now arriving
at platform one
- is the delayed 8:47...
...international train
from Harwich
to London Liverpool Street.
Stay...
Stay together, everyone.
Very good.
Trevor!  Trevor.
- You made it. Bless you.
Yes.
Here, let me help you.
This way, this way.
Are you all right?
So, Mr
and Mrs Willou... Willoughby?
Here.
Nina, Olga. Olga Santer.
And Mr and Mrs Goodfellow.
Yes.
Here.
Nina.
- Hello.
Good afternoon.
Jan and Petr Slonek.
- Lovely to meet you.
- Petr?
- We'll look after you.
- Hello.
Frank.
Come on, boys,
- let's get you home.
- Thank you.
Mr and Mrs Harland?
Harland?
Hi, Nicky.
Oh, hello, Geoff.
You wanna come through?
Yes, thank you.
All right?
Yes, of course I am.
You don't have to look
so nervous.
I can't help it.
Whenever I see you comin',
I know it's gonna
cost me a fortune.
Oh, all in a good cause.
So, which is it this time?
Samaritans? MENCAP?
Abbeyfield?
Oh, something new.
Or rather, old.
Take a seat, Nicky.
Yes. Thank you.
It's about, uh, documents
from the Second World War
- rather relevant for today.
- The war?
- Yes.
- Oh, it's exciting.
It's the, uh, 50th anniversary
of the outbreak coming up.
Yes, I suppose it must be.
Yeah, we're planning
a series of special editions.
- Oh.
- Where did you serve?
Army, Navy?
Oh, well, that's neither
here nor there, is it?
Yeah, I bet you got
some stories.
It's really not about me.
It's actually very important.
It's, uh,
about refugees.
Refugees?
Yeah.
I'm not really seeing
the Maidenhead angle
in refugees.
We wanna be famous
We wanna be on TV
Famous, famous
Hello?
- Hello.
Guess who this is?
- Oh, good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
I'm meeting Mr Martin Blake.
Thank you.
- Oh, certainly.
- Thank you.
If you'd like to follow me?
Yes. Thank you.
Hello, Martin. Thank you.
How are you?
- Nicky.
- Good to see you.
So, you're footloose
for a couple of days?
Yes. Looks like it,
doesn't it?
Time to catch up.
I'm glad.
Yeah, it's not much time,
I'm afraid,
because, um, I've been given
my to-do list, you know?
Grete's reorganising
everything
- before the baby arrives.
- Oh, yes!
A grandfather. You excited?
- No, I'm bloody terrified.
Why?
- I don't know.
- It'll be fun, I'm sure.
Oh, really? If you say so.
Uh, anyway, at the moment,
we're just, um,
throwing out a lot of old
stuff, you know? And, uh...
- Piles up.
- Yes, it does. Yeah.
You have to be ruthless.
- I know.
- Yeah. Box files and,
uh, records of all the old
charity work, you know?
You've always been so busy.
Oh, yeah.
Do you still volunteer
with the Samaritans?
No, no. They kicked me out.
What?
What on earth for?
A woman, uh, phoned
in and told me she was, um...
planning on killing herself.
I said, "Oh, dear me,
there must be something else
-"you'd rather be doing."
You didn't.
Yes, I did.
She told me
that she wanted to visit
her daughter in America.
But her doctor warned her
that the journey
would probably kill her.
I said, "Well, that's exactly
what you want, isn't it?
-"To be killed?"
Yeah, well,
she had a good laugh.
We both had a good laugh.
She went off to America.
She saw her daughter.
Had a wonderful time.
Came back,
- was happy as a lark.
- Oh.
But, uh, ooh, the Samaritans.
Oh, God bless them.
They gave me
a real bollocking,
pardon my French,
and, uh, told me
I'd broken all the rules.
Well, you know, I couldn't
just sit there, could I?
I mean, you're listening
to a bunch of lonely people
when there was something
I could actually say
to help cheer them up.
You might wanna
slow down anyway.
What, with the baby coming.
Why would I want to slow down?
Oh, to enjoy it.
You've done enough.
No. It's never enough, is it?
Did you, uh, need more time
with the wine list?
Oh, yes, um...
They have nice Château Neuf.
We'll have the Chablis.
- Oh, dear.
Thank you.
Where were we, now? Oh, yes.
When I was clearing out
all the papers,
I came across that old, uh,
scrapbook from Prague.
- Do you remember that?
- I do.
Yes, you're not throwing
that out.
No, I think it could be quite
an important little record,
in its way.
You know, full of history
we should learn from.
- It is.
- Yeah.
Look, maybe the, um,
the Wiener archive
might like it. In London.
Yeah?
I know people on the board,
I could mention it.
Yeah, well, it'll probably
just gather dust there.
I mean, I tried showing it
to the Editor
of the Maidenhead newspaper,
what's it called?
The Advertiser or something.
And, um, it's funny because
when I told him
about the refugees, he said,
"I don't quite get
the Maidenhead angle."
So, uh, he's a bit
of a twit, really.
Well, you might like
to donate it to a museum.
In Prague? Or in Israel?
Most of the children
were Jewish, after all.
Prague.
Well... Yeah.
Tell me something...
Do you ever think
about the children
and what happened to them?
Yes, yes, I do.
From time to time.
Do you?
No, not really.
Well, maybe a little, recently.
It is incredible.
What you achieved.
Oh, I don't think
of it that way.
No, no, no, no,
I mean it.
Truly.
I mean, you should be proud.
- Well.
- Save one life,
save the world. You know?
Well, it's nothing
to brag about.
I mean, look at Doreen
and, uh, Trevor.
They did far more than I did
and they took all the risks.
And they actually stayed
in Prague.
You know, Nicky,
telling people isn't bragging.
No.
Hampstead, 7946.
The Germans crossed
the frontier this morning.
They've already taken over
- the ministry.
- Oh, God.
Hitler's motorcade
just went past the hotel.
He was waving.
What does
this mean? For us?
I have to go. We need
to check safe houses.
- Just be careful.
Doreen? Doree...
It's not safe for them here.
Please, get them home.
Just make sure all the lists
are locked up.
Downing Street has advised
that this development does not
mean that Germany is at war.
The Germans are understood
to have taken
an administrative position
in Czechoslovakia,
replacing the government
in Prague.
Flights from Prague...
What happens now?
We work harder.
Instead of standing here
wringing our hands in despair.
We need more trains.
We do whatever it takes
to make that happen.
We find more homes.
We place the children faster.
We're doing as much as we can.
It's not enough, though,
is it?
Look, we cannot...
we cannot let
these people down.
Well, they tell us
the borders are still open.
The thing is now every visa
has to be approved
and stamped by the Gestapo.
The bastards are all over
bloody everything now.
Mr Winton?
Oh, yeah. Oh, hello.
The New Statesman.
Oh, hi.
Uh, shall we speak as we go?
Uh, yes, please.
I don't think
I can recall
ever seeing anything
quite so moving.
How many are there? There must
be, uh, nearly a hundred.
Uh, yes, yes.
Well over a hundred.
Hello. Uh, and this is
our largest transport so far.
And this is
your fourth train.
Are there more planned?
Yes, absolutely.
The fifth train's
only a few weeks away
with more trains
already booked.
The eighth is confirmed,
and the ninth's in preparation
and, um, hundreds of children
ready to board,
but there are thousands more
who need our help
all over Czechoslovakia.
And these are children who are
homeless, they're starving.
And we don't know how long
the border will remain open.
So, we do desperately need
donations and foster homes.
- Hello?
Nicky.
Nicky, it's me.
Um, look, we have one or two
missing from the next list.
-   Missing?
Yes, I don't know.
Either they panicked or...
or they were arrested.
Uh, right. Well, um, you'd
better give me their names.
This one, ah.
That's her. Lenka Weiss.
There was a baby, too.
Damn.
Nicky,
you must know we cannot
save them all.
You have to forgive
yourself that.
If you want Leadbetter,
he's on his hols.
Week in Eastbourne,
shame about the rain.
Look, I urgently
need three visas
for a transport
leaving Prague next week.
Sorry. Can't help you there.
- Trevor.
- Is everything all right?
Listen,
we're three visas short,
Isabel Keller and Eva
and Vera Diamantova.
Is there anything you can do?
I don't know
what you're doing.
But if you're doing
what I think you're doing,
I don't want to know.
Train leaves at eight.
Where is he?
- I don't know.
He should have
been here an hour ago.
- Do you have them?
- Yes.
We have them.
- They've left Prague.
Yes.
Why does England
want all these Jews?
Miss Howson
from Putney, please.
Diamantova, Eva.
Um, along here, please.
Uh, yes, sir.
Thank you, Mrs MacFarlane.
Mrs MacFarlane?
Hello.
Thank you.
There they are.
Uh, Diamantova, Vera.
Lovely to meet you.
Mrs Rainford.
Yes.
Sorry, excuse me.
Hello, dear.
- Hello.
Thank you.
Come along.
Are you hungry?
Someone needs
to tell these people
that they've only got
the children temporarily.
They've all got families
to return to.
Our most urgent cases yet.
They're booked on a train,
the ninth train,
in three days' time.
Please, Leadbetter.
We'll do it. Of course.
Thank you.
Hello?
Today's main event.
Germany has invaded Poland
and has bombed many towns.
General mobilisation has been
ordered in Britain and France.
Parliament was summoned
for six o'clock this evening.
The mobilisation of the navy,
army and the air force...
Winton,
where're you going? Winton?
There's nothing you can do
for them now.
Winton!
Excuse me. Excuse me.
- Excuse me.
Stop pushing.
Look, listen, what's happening
to the international trains?
I don't know
any more than you do.
There's a train due
to leave from Prague.
You need to go
to the station now.
I am staying to help.
No, no.
If they catch you,
I can't protect you. Go, now!
Trevor.
Are you all right?
Yes, I am.
I'm... I'm going
to go back to Doreen.
- Should I...
- You should leave now.
You have your papers.
Go with the children.
See you in London.
Be careful.
You too. Bye.
Hello.
Hello, darling.
Welcome back.
Ah. Mm.
Here you go.
Goodness.
Come and see this.
Big surprise.
Well...
You have got
a lot done.
Yeah. Do you want
a cup of tea?
Hello, Mr Winton.
This is Karl Caplan
at the Weiner Library.
Uh, Martin Blake
- gave us your details.
Oh.
We have a researcher
who we think
might find your archives
very interesting.
So, if you can, please call us
back on 01-636-7247.
We look forward to hearing
from you. Many thanks.
Um, I just mentioned it
in passing.
Hmm.
- But, uh,
Martin, uh,
he got straight onto them.
And, uh... You know...
But I don't want it
to go into a library.
Why not?
Oh, well, it won't
teach anyone anything
stuck on the shelf.
Then call them.
Talk to them.
Yes. Well, I'm very grateful.
Well,
we look forward to seeing you.
Thank you.
- Tell me.
Well, there's this woman who
wants to see the scrapbook.
She's a historian,
married to some... a man
from Czechoslovakia.
His name is Robert Maxwell.
The newspaper man?
Yes, that's right and, uh,
she's running some
kind of a conference
and she wants to meet me.
Elizabeth Maxwell,
she calls herself Betty.
She's French, apparently.
I'm Nicholas Winton.
Good afternoon.
We've been expecting you.
Oh.
Oh, thank you so much
for coming all this way.
Here it is. The scrapbook.
Um, relates back
to some time I spent in Prague
before the war.
It's a little heavy,
I'm afraid.
Yeah.
Now, a lot of that stuff
is just touristy stuff.
Postcards and so on
and so forth.
And, uh... Yes,
there are all... That's it.
There're some letters
relating to the transport
of children,
- uh, to Britain.
- Ah.
These are
the eight children you saved?
No, no. It was
a few more than that.
If you turn the pages,
you can see.
I sent out those cards, uh
for people to,
uh, choose, you know?
And,  I must say
it was a bit like, um,
it was bit like selling
soap powder,
if you know what I mean.
I couldn't for the life of me
think how else I could,
uh, find enough families
to take in so many kids.
Uh, forgive me
but how many children
are we speaking about?
Oh. Uh...  669.
We successfully placed.
You... You... You brought
669 children
from Prague to England?
Well, I mean
with my colleagues
Doreen Warriner,
Trevor Chadwick,
and Hana and um...
But there were so many other
people involved, you know,
and my own mother.
She was a great help.
And I suppose...
I suppose
I'm the only one left, now.
At least I think I am.
Uh, the children
that are crossed out
are the ones
we found homes for.
And the faces
that are not crossed out?
Ah, well, they were
the less fortunate
and, uh, it was a lottery,
I'm afraid.
You wrote to the president
of the United States?
Fat lot of good
he was.
I never heard back
from him.
Yeah, it's disappointing,
I must say.
Oh, yes, now, these, uh...
Those there are the names
of the children
and their new addresses.
Excuse me, Mr Winton.
This is not exactly
what I was expecting.
I'm a little taken aback
at the scale
of your operation.
Oh. Oh, you know,
if we'd had
more money, more time
and more government support
we could've done a lot more,
I think.
Blank pages?
Yeah. That was the last train.
Something happened
to the last train?
Yes, it was the ninth train.
It was our largest group
of 250 children and uh...
It was the 1st
of September, 1939.
The same day
that Hitler invaded Poland.
The very start of the war.
Hana.
Trevor!
Hana!
That was
the end of that.
Bloody Hitler,
that's all I can say.
We had hundreds
of foster families waiting,
ready to welcome them, but...
yeah.
Merci.
Take milk?
Uh, no, thank you.
Thank you.
That's wonderful. Thank you.
I'm sorry.
Must be very difficult for you
knowing what happened
to those children.
Well, I don't know
what happened, do I?
They were taken off the train,
returned to their families
and...
that was the end of that.
Surely, I'm almost certain
that they perished
in the camps?
Hmm.
Well, you may be right about
those children, Mrs Maxwell.
But I've learned to keep
my imagination in check.
Uh, so I can still be of use
and not go raving mad.
Mr Winton,
around 15,000 children
went into concentration camps
in Czechoslovakia
and, uh, less than 200
of them survived,
and you saved 669.
Oh.
Ah.
Anyway, I'd best, uh,
I'd better be going
because my wife is expecting
me and I don't want...
I don't want to get
into any trouble,
if you know what I mean.
I would like very much
to hold on to your scrapbook,
if I may.
- Well, all right.
- And...
with your permission, I would
like to show it to my husband.
I'm sure he will consider it
a very important story.
Oh. Well, thank you.
- Thank you.
As many
of you will know,
our group was founded in 1965
to encourage friendship
between Maidenhead
and its twin towns
across Europe.
We were met at the airport
by Maria Bechtler
and travelled by coach
to Bad Godesberg,
where we were given a warm...
All right?
Where we were given
a warm Willkommen...
- ...by our hostesses.
Thank you, darling.
Don't trip, it's heavy.
Hey, Steve.
Don't strain yourself,
will you?
Here. Let me.
- Give me a hand.
Oh, God.
I can't get over
all the space, Dad.
Hey, you could fit in
a playpen in here.
Oh, no.
- It looks lovely, doesn't it?
- Doesn't it?
- Yeah. Doesn't it, Dad?
- Yes.
Don't set it on fire.
Nicky!
Well, you did last year,
didn't you?
I did not.
- Yes, you did
- and the year before that.
- No.
He loves to tease, doesn't he?
- Huh?
- Oh, it looks lovely.
Some of them new, aren't they?
- Well, merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
Cheers.
It's for you.
Oh.
Oh, this is interesting.
What is it?
It's from the Editor
of the Sunday Mirror.
"We would very much like
to publish a major article
"detailing
the child evacuation."
But... That's marvellous.
Oh, yes. It says,
"With wider publicity in mind,
"I have been talking
"to the BBC Television
programme That's Life!"
Surely not.
Yes, they want me
to go in and, uh,
check the historical accuracy.
But that's such a silly show.
- What?
- That's Life!
It's a very silly show.
It is.
Well, it's very popular,
isn't it?
I mean, a lot of people
watch it.
Should I come with you?
Why would you want
to come with me
if you think it's so silly?
Oh.
Hello. Hi, Mr Winton,
such a pleasure to meet you.
Just gonna take you
through here.
- Yes.
This way.
What exactly am I to do?
Oh, they're going
to explain all that.
- Oh.
- It's just through here.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Camera six.
Can you come
from the other side?
Thank you.
Thirty seconds
to on air.
Okay, and you are just here.
- Couldn't I sit farther back?
- I'm afraid not.
Oh, I'd rather be backstage.
I'm... I'm really,
really sorry.
It's just they told me
to put you here
and we're running out of time.
All right.
Who's that?
Hello. Good evening.
And would you want
to be treated by this dentist
in Bath who goes
by the name Mr F Illing?
Esther.
Now, an extraordinary story
has come to light
about a young man who,
many years ago,
visited Prague,
and what he found there
was a terrible situation.
Thousands
of refugees stranded,
living
in desperate conditions,
and at the mercy of Hitler's
imminent invasion.
This young man, whose name
was Nicholas Winton,
decided that something
had to be done.
And so he managed
to rescue 669 children.
This is his scrapbook.
All sorts
of fascinating photographs.
Perhaps you can see...
Here's a photograph of
Nicholas Winton himself,
with one of the children
he rescued.
But at the very back,
is a list
of all the children
that he rescued.
Here is Vera Diamantova,
now Vera Gissing.
We found her name on his list.
And Vera is here
with us tonight. Hello, Vera.
- Hello.
Now, I should tell
you that you are, in fact,
sitting next
to Mr Nicholas Winton.
Hello.
- Hello.
Thank you.
I was reunited
with my sister
a few years later.
And your parents?
My father was tortured,
in Terezin.
Mm-hmm.
And then sent to Auschwitz.
And then on
to another labour camp.
Ah.
A fellow prisoner told me
he thought he'd been shot
on the Death March.
Hmm.
My mother, um, died of typhus.
So sorry.
- Contracted at Belsen.
But she knew
that we were safe.
For a mother,
that is everything.
And, um, my cousins,
Honza and Tommy
were on the last train.
Yeah.
Though I never
saw them again, of course.
Nicky.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. Very sorry.
Don't.
I'll get it.
Nicky! You've not
called me back.
I left messages!
- Doesn't it follow that I don't
want to talk to you?
- Oh, come on, come on,
let me do a piece.
No, thanks.
Come on. It's such
a brilliant story, Nicky.
You're a hero. Nicky, please.
Please.
What...
It's not about me.
- Nicky, come on,
give me a chance.
Maidenhead, 3310.
Hello, is
Mister Winton there, please?
No, he's not available.
Can I ask who's calling?
This is Katinka Blackford
from That's Life!
Oh. Oh, I see.
Two more children, huh?
They... They phoned in
after last week's show.
Yeah.
They so
desperately want to meet you.
You don't have to do it.
Don't I?
I asked them to send
the children's details to us.
I won't have you
ambushed again.
Milena...
Well, goodness. This girl's
done very well for herself.
Yeah.
Milena is now
Lady Grenfell Baines.
Oh.
All right.
- Who's that?
Hanus.
Perhaps it's too much.
Perhaps you've done enough.
No, I...
I started
the whole thing, so...
I have to finish it.
Last week was incredible
for us here at That's Life!
We told a story that touched
the hearts of so many people.
We've been overwhelmed
by the response.
One of the people who was
very affected last week
is with us here tonight.
Milena Fleischmann,
now Lady Grenfell Baines,
was also one of the children
that Nicholas Winton rescued.
Milena, I understand
you still have the name tag
that you wore around your neck
when you arrived here
as a little girl.
Yes, I wore this
around my neck
and this is the actual pass
we were given
to come to England.
So, I am one of the children
that you saved.
Now, Mr Winton, having
introduced you to Milena,
there's somebody else that
we'd like to tell you about.
Hanus Schnabel was only 11
when he came over here.
We have his passport
with all the official
stamps in it.
I don't know
whether you can see,
but this is how he got here.
And he told us...
"I don't know how
my rescue was arranged.
"I had no idea when I left
my parents at Prague station
"that I would never
see them again.
"My older brother Franta
was supposed
"to come here by train
in September,
"but war broke out and I never
saw him again either.
"I hoped all through the war
that they would survive,
"but they were gassed
in a concentration camp.
"I've often wondered
who was responsible
"for organising my rescue.
"I would dearly love
to meet him
"and thank him
for helping us children
"without any hope
of acknowledgement."
Hanus' name is
on Mr Winton's list.
And Hanus is here
with us tonight.
Oh.
Thank you.
Now, I don't want
to rush you.
I know you've waited
a long time for this moment,
but you'll be able
to talk to Hanus later.
However, our evening
isn't quite over.
Can I ask, is there anyone
in the audience tonight
who owes their life
to Nicholas Winton?
If so, could you
stand up, please?
Mr Winton, would you like
to turn around?
You can meet
all of these people
properly after the programme.
In the meantime, Mr Winton,
on behalf of all of them,
thank you very much indeed.
See Grandpa?
- Hello. Hello, Vera. Come in.
- Oh, Nicky.
- Hello.
- Good, go through. Hello.
- Hi.
What's your name?
Hi,
- I'm Vera's daughter.
Hello.
Nice to meet you.
Hello. Come through.
This is
so beautiful.
Oh, this is Nicola.
- Oh, hello. Hello.
- My daughter.
And this is Rebecca,
my little grandchild.
- Wow. Hello.
Say, "Hello."
Hi. So, you do have a pool.
We do have a pool.
Nicky, turn the music down
a little bit, darling.
Hello, young man. Hello.
Right,
be careful, though.
Not too fast.
Oh, it's beautiful, isn't it?
Oh, my goodness.
Darling, you must
be really careful here.
Oh, you have
a lovely pool, Nicky.
Yeah. I like to swim.
- You remember?
- Mm.
You all got towels?
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Can we go in?
Yes!
What's the temperature like?
It's all right
if you're a penguin.
Let's have
a little go, shall we?
- Oh. Gotcha!
Oh!
- Isn't that lovely.